# Ashtanga Yoga

At the time i'm writing this it is 2021, after my birthday, so that makes me 52.
I've started Ashtanga yoga when I was...I'm thinking 46.
I practice it once a week.

## What is Ashtanga Yoga?
### Asanas
It is a series of postures (called asanas) that you perform.
Each pose you hold for 5 breaths before you move on to the next asana, without rushing.
Ashtanga yoga is divided in 6 series of movements. I have only been able to begin the first series, the Primary Series.

The Primary Series is divided into a couple of 'sequences'.
There's the starting sequence: You always begin with the sun salutations. After that comes the standing sequence, then the sitting sequence and then the closing sequence.

### Vinyasas
In between the postures you perform a vinyasa. This is a series of movements that sort of resets your body so that it will be ready for the next pose.

### The Ujayi breath. 
You try to breath steadily, in and out, slowly and deeply.
It kind of sounds like the ocean since you tighten your throat a little bit while breathing in and out. I'd say you use every part of your body to breathe, _except_ the belly. That part you keep tightened a little bit. This way it feels like you breathe through a straw, but at the same time this will make your breath steady and regularly.


### Bandhas
At the same time, at all times during practice, you bring tension to the bandhas.
These are three sets of muscles, near your bottom, near the navel and near the throat.
This way you will protect your back, but at the same time it is much more that just muscles.
Bandhas are also described as energy locks. I feel a sense of 'keeping the energy inside' during practice. This energy, for me, directly translates into strength to do the practice.
Without bandhas I just don't cut it.

### Drishti
Last but not least, this is about the focus of your gaze.
There's a limited set of Drishtis:
- your big toe
- your nose
- the spot between your eyebrows
- the index finger of either one of your hands
- your navel.
It depends on which movement you do, which drishti you use.
...I'm thinking if I did not forget a drishti. Well it's oke.

### Different 'styles' of practice
There are two distinctly different ways for a practice.
One is by following an instructor in a led class.
Everyone goes through the motions that the instructor calls aloud, and who also counts the breaths.
Usually (at least for me) it is a led class for what is called the half primary series.
This is the whole Primary series, minus a couple of advanced poses. I say advanced, but lets just say less accessible for most people. Some of these postures require a lot of core strength, or arm strength, or flexibility in your shoulders or hips...Not being able to perform these postures is also a safety valve: your body may not be ready to handle the forces you exert on your body. Going through a posture you are not ready for may even lead to serious injury.
For example: An often much coveted pose is the lotus pose.
It makes for gorgeous Instagram pictures.
However, if your hips have not developed both loosenes to open as well as strength to keep your pelvic floor together, doing the lotus by force might seriously injure your knees.
Such an injure can take months or maybe longer to recover.
But i digress...

The other form is the socalled Mysore style.
In this 'style' you practice in your own pace, following your own breath. Always following the postures as laid out in the series, but at your own pace.
And only so far as you can safely go. (which can take a long time to recognize for some :-)
